Add try_put_and_wait documentation (#1514)
oneapi-src/oneTBB: doc/main/reference/try_put_and_wait.rst

.. _try_put_and_wait:

Waiting for Single Messages in Flow Graph
=========================================

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 1

Description
***********

This feature adds a new ``try_put_and_wait`` interface to the receiving nodes in the Flow Graph.

> This function allows to wait until completion of single message, submitted to ``try_put_and_wait`` as an input by the Flow Graph in

Reviewer: I'd suggest, "This function puts a message as an input into a Flow Graph and then waits until all work related to that input is complete."

Reviewer: I'd add a second sentence, "try_put_and_wait may reduce latency compared to calling graph::wait_for_all since graph::wait_for_all waits for all work, including work unrelated to the input message, to complete."

Author: Fixed

opposite to ``graph.wait_for_all()`` function that waits for completion of all tasks in the graph.

``node.try_put_and_wait(msg)`` performs ``node.try_put(msg)`` on the node and waits until the work on ``msg`` is completed.
Therefore, the following conditions are true:

> * Any task initiated by any node in the Flow Graph that involves on working with ``msg`` or any other intermediate result

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Any task initiated by any node in the Flow Graph that involves working with ``msg`` or any other intermediate result
```

Author: Done

computed from ``msg`` is completed.

> * Any intermediate result computed from ``msg`` is retrieved from any buffer in the graph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* No intermediate results computed from ``msg`` remain in any buffers in the graph.
```

Author: Done

.. caution::

>     To prevent ``try_put_and_wait`` calls from infinite blocking, avoid using buffering nodes at the end of the Flow Graph since the final result

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To prevent ``try_put_and_wait`` calls from infinite waiting, avoid using buffering nodes at the end of the Flow Graph since the final result
```

>     would not be retrieved by the Flow Graph.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    will not be automatically consumed by the Flow Graph.
```

Author: Done

*******

.. code:: cpp

    #define TBB_PREVIEW_FLOW_GRAPH_TRY_PUT_AND_WAIT
    #include <oneapi/tbb/flow_graph.h>
    #include <oneapi/tbb/parallel_for.h>

    struct f1_body;
    struct f2_body;
    struct f3_body;
    struct f4_body;

    int main() {
        using namespace oneapi::tbb;

        flow::graph g;
        flow::broadcast_node<int> start_node(g);

        flow::function_node<int, int> f1(g, flow::unlimited, f1_body{});
        flow::function_node<int, int> f2(g, flow::unlimited, f2_body{});
        flow::function_node<int, int> f3(g, flow::unlimited, f3_body{});

        flow::join_node<std::tuple<int, int>> join(g);

        flow::function_node<std::tuple<int, int>, int> f4(g, flow::serial, f4_body{});

        flow::make_edge(start_node, f1);
        flow::make_edge(f1, f2);

        flow::make_edge(start_node, f3);

        flow::make_edge(f2, flow::input_port<0>(join));
        flow::make_edge(f3, flow::input_port<1>(join));

        flow::make_edge(join, f4);

        // Submit work into the graph
        parallel_for(0, 100, [](int input) {
            start_node.try_put_and_wait(input);

            // Post processing the result of input
        });
    }

> Each iteration of ``parallel_for`` submits a part of work into the Flow Graph. After returning from ``try_put_and_wait(input)``, it is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each iteration of ``parallel_for`` submits an input into the Flow Graph. After returning from ``try_put_and_wait(input)``, it is
```

Author: Done

.. _try_put_and_wait:

> Waiting for single messages in Flow Graph

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Waiting for Single Messages in Flow Graph
```

Author: Fixed

=========================================

.. contents::
    :local:
    :depth: 1

Description
***********

> This feature adds a new ``try_put_and_wait`` to the receiving nodes in the Flow Graph.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This feature adds a new ``try_put_and_wait`` interface to the receiving nodes in the Flow Graph.
```

Author: Fixed

> This function puts a message as an input into a Flow Graph and then waits until all work related to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This function puts a message as an input into a Flow Graph and waits until all work related to
```

Author: Done

that message is complete.
``try_put_and_wait`` may reduce latency compared to calling ``graph::wait_for_all`` since

> ``graph::wait_for_all`` waits for all work, including unrelated to the input message, to complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``graph::wait_for_all`` waits for all work, including work that is unrelated to the input message, to complete.
```

Author: Fixed

> The ``node.try_put_and_wait(msg)`` is performing ``node.try_put(msg)`` on the node and blocks until the work on ``msg`` is completed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``node.try_put_and_wait(msg)`` performs ``node.try_put(msg)`` on the node and blocks it until the work on ``msg`` is completed.
```

Author: Partially fixed, I would prefer to use `waiting until` instead of `blocks` since it is not clear what "blocking the function" means and I don't want to use terminology of blocking the thread here.

> It means the following two statements:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Therefore, the following conditions are true:
```

Author: Fixed

> * Any task spawned by any node in the Flow Graph that corresponds on working with ``msg`` or any other intermediate result

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Any task initiated by any node in the Flow Graph that involves working with msg or any intermediate result derived from ``msg`` is completed.
```

Author: Partially fixed, using `derived from` can be ambiguous with the C++ inheritance terminology. Can we keep `computed` here?

Reviewer 2: yes, computed is fine

* Any task initiated by any node in the Flow Graph that involves working with ``msg`` or any other intermediate result
computed from ``msg`` is completed.

> * No intermediate results computed from ``msg`` remain in any buffers in the graph.

Reviewer 2: Didn't render correctly:
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b3e7687b-fd8f-4475-9b46-ca28a8e667c8)

Author: Fixed

>     Usage of buffering nodes at the end of the Flow Graph to collect the computation results may prevent ``try_put_and_wait`` calls

Reviewer 2: I'd rephrase to smtn like:

To prevent issues where ``try_put_and_wait`` calls are skipped after the ``wait_for_all call`` completes, do not use buffering nodes at the end of the Flow Graph.

Author: Rewritten.

    even after ``wait_for_all`` call would be completed.

.. caution::

>     ``multifunction_node`` and ``async_node`` classes are not currently supported by this feature. Having one of these nodes in the

Reviewer 2: The ``multifunction_node`` and ``async_node`` classes are not supported by this feature. Including one of these nodes in the Flow Graph may cause ``try_put_and_wait`` to exit early, even if the computations on the initial input message are still in progress.

Author: Fixed.

            public:
                bool try_put_and_wait(const T& input);
            }; // class queue_node

            template <typename T, typename Compare = std::less<T>>
            class priority_queue_node {
            public:
                bool try_put_and_wait(const T& input);
            }; // class priority_queue_node

            template <typename T>
            class sequencer_node {
            public:
                bool try_put_and_wait(const T& input);
            }; // class sequencer_node

            template <typename T, typename DecrementType = continue_msg>
            class limiter_node {
            public:
                bool try_put_and_wait(const T& input);
            }; // class limiter_node

            template <typename T>
            class broadcast_node {
            public:
                bool try_put_and_wait(const T& input);
            }; // class broadcast_node

            template <typename TupleType>
            class split_node {
            public:
                bool try_put_and_wait(const TupleType& input);
            }; // class split_node
        } // namespace tbb
    } // namespace oneapi

> Member functions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Member Functions
```

----------------

> This section desc

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

Author: Removed

.. code:: cpp

    template <typename Output, typename Policy>
    bool continue_node<Output, Policy>::try_put_and_wait(const continue_msg& input)

**Effects**: Increments the count of input signals received. If the incremented count is equal to the number
of known predecessors, performs the ``body`` function object execution.

> Waits for the completion of the ``input`` in the Flow Graph meaning all tasks in each graph node related to ``input``

Reviewer 2: Waits for the completion of the ``input`` in the Flow Graph, meaning all tasks associated with each node related to the ``input`` are executed, and no related objects remain in any buffer within the graph.

Author: Fixed

> Waits for the completion of the ``input`` in the Flow Graph meaning all tasks created by each node and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Waits for the completion of the ``input`` in the Flow Graph, meaning all tasks created by each node and
```

Author: Done

are exetutted and no buffered objects related to ``input`` in any buffer in the graph.

**Returns**: ``true``.

.. code:: cpp

    template <typename Input, typename Output, typename Policy>
    bool function_node<Input, Output, Policy>::try_put_and_wait(const Input& input)

**Effects**: If the concurrency limit allows, executes the user-provided body on the incoming message ``input``.
Otherwise, depending on the ``Policy`` of the node, either queues the incoming message ``input`` or rejects it.

> Waits for the completion of the ``input`` in the Flow Graph meaning all tasks in each graph node related to ``input``

Reviewer 2: same as above

> Waits for the completion of the ``input`` in the Flow Graph meaning all tasks created by each node and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Waits for the completion of the ``input`` in the Flow Graph, meaning all tasks created by each node and
```

Author: Done

are exetutted and no buffered objects related to ``input`` in any buffer in the graph.

> **Returns**: ``true`` if the input was accepted, ``false`` otherwise.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Returns**: ``true`` if the input is accepted, ``false`` otherwise.
```

Author: Fixed

.. code:: cpp

    template <typename T>
    bool overwrite_node<T>::try_put_and_wait(const T& input)

> **Effects**: Stores ``input`` in the internal single item buffer and broadcasts it to all successors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Effects**: Stores ``input`` in the internal single-item buffer and broadcasts it to all successors.
```

> Waits for the completion of the ``input`` in the Flow Graph meaning all tasks in each graph node related to ``input``

Reviewer 2: same here and later on

Author: Fixed

> Waits for the completion of the ``input`` in the Flow Graph meaning all tasks created by each node and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Waits for the completion of the ``input`` in the Flow Graph, meaning all tasks created by each node and
```

Author: Done

are exetutted and no buffered objects related to ``input`` in any buffer in the graph.

**Returns**: ``true``.

.. caution::

>     Since the input element is not retrieved from ``overwrite_node`` once accepted by the successor, the element should be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Since the input element is not retrieved from ``overwrite_node`` once accepted by the successor, 
```

Author: Fixed

>     retrieved by explicitly calling the ``clear()`` method or by overwriting by another element to prevent

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    retrieve it by explicitly calling the ``clear()`` method or by overwriting with another element to prevent
```

>     ``try_put_and_wait`` from endless waiting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ``try_put_and_wait`` from indefinite waiting.
```

Author: Fixed

.. code:: cpp

    template <typename T>
    bool write_once_node<T>::try_put_and_wait(const T& input)

> **Effects**: Stores ``input`` in the internal single item buffer if it does not contain a valid value already.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Effects**: Stores ``input`` in the internal single-item buffer if it does not contain a valid value already.
```

Author: Done

> If a new value is set, the node broadcast it to all successors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a new value is set, the node broadcasts it to all successors.
```

Author: Fixed

> Waits for the completion of the ``input`` in the Flow Graph meaning all tasks created by each node and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Waits for the completion of the ``input`` in the Flow Graph, meaning all tasks created by each node and
```

are exetutted and no buffered objects related to ``input`` in any buffer in the graph.

**Returns**: ``true`` for the first time after construction or a call to ``clear()``.

.. caution::

>     Since the input element is not retrieved from the ``write_once_node`` once accepted by the successor, the element should

Reviewer 2: same

Author: Fixed

    retrieve it by explicitly calling the ``clear()`` method to prevent ``try_put_and_wait`` from indefinite waiting.

.. code:: cpp

    template <typename T>
    bool buffer_node<T>::try_put_and_wait(const T& input)

**Effects**: Adds ``input`` to the set of items managed by the node and tries forwarding it to a successor.

> Waits for the completion of the ``input`` in the Flow Graph meaning all tasks created by each node and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Waits for the completion of the ``input`` in the Flow Graph, meaning all tasks created by each node and
```

Author: Done

are exetutted and no buffered objects related to ``input`` in any buffer in the graph.

**Returns**: ``true``.

.. code:: cpp

    template <typename T>
    bool queue_node<T>::try_put_and_wait(const T& input)

> **Effects**: Adds ``input`` to the set of items managed by the node, and tries forwarding the least recently added item

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Effects**: Adds ``input`` to the set of items managed by the node and tries forwarding the least recently added item
```

Author: Fixed

to a successor.

> Waits for the completion of the ``input`` in the Flow Graph meaning all tasks created by each node and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Waits for the completion of the ``input`` in the Flow Graph, meaning all tasks created by each node and
```

Author: Done

are exetutted and no buffered objects related to ``input`` in any buffer in the graph.

**Returns**: ``true``.

.. code:: cpp

    template <typename T, typename Compare>
    bool priority_queue_node<T>::try_put_and_wait(const T& input)

> **Effects**: Adds ``input`` to the ``priority_queue_node`` and tries forwarding to a successor the item with the largest

Reviewer 2: Adds input to the priority_queue_node and attempts to forward the item with the highest priority among all items added to the node but not yet forwarded to the successors.

Author: Fixed

priority among all items added to the node but not yet forwarded to the successors.

> Waits for the completion of the ``input`` in the Flow Graph meaning all tasks created by each node and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Waits for the completion of the ``input`` in the Flow Graph, meaning all tasks created by each node and
```

Author: Done

related to ``input`` are executed, and no related objects remain in any buffer within the graph.

**Returns**: ``true``.

.. code:: cpp

    template <typename T>
    bool sequencer_node<T>::try_put_and_wait(const T& input)

**Effects**: Adds ``input`` to the ``sequencer_node`` and tries forwarding the next item in sequence to a successor.

> Waits for the completion of the ``input`` in the Flow Graph meaning all tasks created by each node and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Waits for the completion of the ``input`` in the Flow Graph, meaning all tasks created by each node and
```

Author: Done

are exetutted and no buffered objects related to ``input`` in any buffer in the graph.

**Returns**: ``true``.

.. code:: cpp

    template <typename T, typename DecrementType>
    bool limiter_node<T, DecrementType>::try_put_and_wait(const T& input)

> **Effects**: If the broadcast count is below the threshold, ``input`` is broadcasted to all successors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Effects**: If the broadcast count is below the threshold, broadcasts ``input`` to all successors.
```

Author: Fixed

> Waits for the completion of the ``input`` in the Flow Graph meaning all tasks created by each node and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Waits for the completion of the ``input`` in the Flow Graph, meaning all tasks created by each node and
```

Author: Done

related to ``input`` are executed, and no related objects remain in any buffer within the graph.

**Returns**: ``true`` if ``input`` is broadcasted; ``false`` otherwise.

.. code:: cpp

    template <typename T>
    bool broadcast_node<T>::try_put_and_wait(const T& input)

**Effects**: Broadcasts ``input`` to all successors.

> Waits for the completion of the ``input`` in the Flow Graph meaning all tasks created by each node and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Waits for the completion of the ``input`` in the Flow Graph, meaning all tasks created by each node and
```

Author: Done

are exetutted and no buffered objects related to ``input`` in any buffer in the graph.

> **Returns**: ``true`` even if the node was unable to successfully forward the message to any of successors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Returns**: ``true`` even if the node cannot successfully forward the message to any of its successors.
```

Author: Fixed

.. code:: cpp

    template <typename TupleType>
    bool split_node<TupleType>::try_put_and_wait(const TupleType& input);

**Effects**: Broadcasts each element in the incoming tuple to the nodes connected to the ``split_node`` output ports.

> The element at index ``i`` of ``input`` will be broadcasted through the output port number ``i``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The element at index ``i`` of ``input`` is broadcasted through the output port number ``i``.
```

Author: Fixed

> Waits for the completion of the ``input`` in the Flow Graph meaning all tasks created by each node and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Waits for the completion of the ``input`` in the Flow Graph, meaning all tasks created by each node and
```

Author: Done
